Welcome back,
so.
Relational operators are operators
that define relationship
between two operands.
So the relations can be
less than, equal than, etc.
So you have these relational
operators that are
like this.
So you have
greater than
greater than, ooops sorry.
greater than or equal
What else
shall we place?
equal, equal
Let's go all the way.
So not equal, well,
equal equal sign means equals.
And
when you just type in
a single equal sign,
then you're assigning a value.
So exclamation equals means
not equal too.
And what else we got?
We got
less than or equal
to
and I do believe that I'm
missing one more which
is less than.
Yes, that should be it.
Anyway, the result
of
these relational operators.
So if you have
2 variables or 2 expressions
on two sides
of this relational operator,
the
result is a boolian.
So we'll get a boolian value
as a result.
Let's go ahead and write a
small piece of code
and have a look at how this
actually works, so.
int
let's say,
this is 10
y is equal to
set shall be equal to
15 and w
shall be equal to 10.
Here we go.
Down below we will type in
bool
I don't know,
rel, relational operator
example 1
equals
x
is greater
than
y
Do you believe
or do you consider that
this statement is true or false?
Basically I'm asking you,
is x greater than y?
I am stating
that x, I'm stating it
basically x is greater than y.
And then
we are
evaluating. We're looking at it and
we're thinking, well, is it
true or not?
Well, let's take a look.
x is 10
and y is 5.
So is 10 greater than 5?
Yes, it is. Therefore,
the result of this will
be true.
It will be the same as
though we have
assigned
a value
of true
to the boolian variable,
rel1.
So this here,
and this here, this is
pretty much
the same.
Except here when one of the
values alters the condition,
the result of the condition
can change as well
to false.
Okay so, we can type in
bool
rel2
equals
y is greater than x.
So, is y greater than x?
Why is 5,
x is 10?
Is 5 greater than 10?
No, of course not.
It's not, therefore,
it's false.
Well, I don't know, maybe it is.
It depends in which universe
you live, but hey.
That's completely up to you.
Just kidding.
Here,
5 is less than 10.
Sometimes
lose a little bit of control
and say hey,
completely with the wrong things
that can be a little bit
confusing but
hopefully
it will do no harm.
So anyway,
now I'm going to assign
the following
to the rel3 variable.
It will be x
equals equals z
is x equals to z
So look, this is the expression
that's being evaluated.
And this is the assignment
operators.
So this is the relational.
This is the relational operator
and this is the assignment operator.
We are going to assign
the result of this
to the variable rel3.
Is x equal to z?
Well, x is 10,
and z is 15,
so obviously, no.
It is not
in this universe anyway.
Therefore,
the result will be no.
The result will be false.
rel3 will be
false.
Let's go a little bit further.
rel4
These are really really
simple examples
but this can get complicated
really fast.
And
as I said,
these basics are important
to us.
So you have
rel4 which is equal to
x is,
which is
equal to whatever the
result of this is.
So x not equal to z.
x is 10, z is 15,
so obviously,
x is not equal to 15, henceforth,
this shall be true and
the value of rel4 will be true.
Let's go ahead and
give a few more examples.
So, I don't know
rel6
shall be assigned the
result of
x is greater than or equal to
w
x is 10
w is 10
so
10 is definitely not
greater than 10
but 10 is equal to 10.
Therefore, this is also true.
rel6 will
be assigned the value of
true.
Okay, so let's take a look a
little bit at the negation as well.
bool
rel
shall be equal to,
let's go ahead
and negate this,
open parenthesis
x is greater than
w
And this is pretty much
the same
as x
is lesser or equal
than w, which is
true.
x is
greater than w.
x is 10
w is 10
obviously
this is going to be
evaluated to false.
Right? Because 10 is not
greater than 10.
10 is equal to 10.
However, since this expression
here will be evaluated
to false and then it will
be negated,
the total of this expression
will be evaluated to true.
Because you get false
and then you flip it with
negation here,
and you get true.
So rel7
will be assigned a value
of true.
Okay, so.
We can
go ahead and
have,
we can have more than
one value
like this.
We can put them into sandwich,
so to say.
We type in
bool
rel8
is equal to 12
is greater than x,
is greater than 7.
So, is x greater than 7?
Is x greater than 7?
I don't know, is it?
Yes, it is, so.
The value of x is 10.
And 10 is definitely greater than 7.
And is x lesser than 12?
Yes, it is lesser than...
Is x lesser than 12?
Yes, it is.
So this will compile
definitely.
However,
it is not correct.
Because it evaluates
to false. There was a problem.
Why? it goes from left to right.
So it goes like this.
Imagine that you had
a parenthesis here
and parenthesis is here.
Strictly theoretically speaking,
this is not actually wrong.
It will compile
and there is no problem but
it can be very confusing.
You see,
since we're going from
left to right,
this is the first thing that
will be evaluated.
And it will be asked whether 12
is greater than x or not.
And
is
definitely greater than x
so
this will be true.
And then it will,
then you will get a
weird looking thing where
a boolian true
will be stated to be greater than
7.
So, yeah.
As I said,
this will compile but
it is not correct.
Because it will evaluate to false.
12 is greater than x
and that is
true.
So you'll get
true greater than 7.
And true has the value of
so that is 1 greater than 7
which is
false. I know it's weird, look.
This part gets evaluated first.
Very weird.
And it will state true.
And then the next thing
it will be evaluated is
true greater than 7.
But true
has the value of
1, the numerical value of 1.
And this actually looks
like this, 1
greater
than 7.
So this will be final condition
that will be evaluated
from this statement.
And 1 is definitely not greater
than 7, henceforth,
the final result will be
false.
Therefore,
rel8
will have the final value of
false.
Be very careful with these things.
I have deliberately shown
you these example
so that you would,
so that you would understand
that there are
a lot of logical complexities
here that go beyond the
compiler checking gears
for you. You actually have to
watch what you are
writing. There is no syntax here.
There are no problems.
Even without the parenthesis
here,
it will compile,
the machine will work on it but
it will go from left to right
and you might not get
the result you wanted to get.
Anyway, the final
example that I would like
to show you
here and then I'm going to
call it
a day with this,
with the operands here,
with the logical and
relational operands.
You will
basically a rewrite of this.
To put it in a correct way.
bool rel9
and it will be
equals to 12
greater than x.
Okay.
So we have that.
What we wanted to achieve here,
if we move the parenthesis,
we wanted to say,
we wanted to evaluate this
entire expression as true
if x was greater than 7
and lesser than 12.
However, that is not what's
going to happen here
due to the reasons explained
a moment ago.
But if we wanted it to be like that,
we would need to write it like this.
And then we would say
x greater than 7.
So now,
it will state
like this.
12 greater than x
okay, 12 is greater than 10,
so this is going to be true.
Ooops.
true
and then it will state
that x is greater than 7.
So x is greater than 7.
10 is greater than 7, yes.
So.
true and
true
will yield
true.
Therefore, rel9 will be
assigned a value of
true.
Simple as that.
So I just want to show the,
I guess illogically incorrect
way of doing this
and logically correct way
of doing this.
So to say because
you're not technically making
a syntax here or anything that
the compiler might find
illegal here.
Just making a logical error.
Anyway, that would be it.
I bid you farewell
and we're going to go ahead and
to jump into the next tutorial.